# Euterpe
A collection of ancient Greek texts in plain Unicode format written before 1453 CE

This repository contains the ancient Greek texts I have been able to scan in and correct from out of copyright sources, focusing initially on my research interest in the Greek novel. However, expansion to cover all ancient Greek texts, including scholia, inscriptions and documentary papyri is planned. A search engine will then be added to quickly find Greek phrases or word usages within the collection, including proper names, which are the only words allowed in the transcriptions to begin with capital letters. The transcriptions are augmented by an unobtrustive referencing system, based on the traditional names for subdivisions found in print editions, which will allow the works to be reliably cited.

The motivation for this collection is that the existing archives (TLG, Perseus) seek to control in some way the patrimony of the ancient Greeks, which belongs to all. Embedding technology that is already obsolete or becoming obsolete into these valuable texts is also a concern. In the spirit of the successful Gutenberg.org collection of plain ASCII texts this repository offers plain Unicode texts free from any licensing restrictions other than the requirement to acknowledge their source, and licenses their reuse for any purpose whatsoever.

They will also form the basis for an inverse Greek-English lexicon (which could also be later expanded to other languages) which turns inside out the traditional lexicon format by linking word forms as they occur in the text to their headwords, not the other way around. A user of such a lexicon would only have to enter the word they see on the page, perhaps restricted by author, to see its correct part of speech and local meaning. This will greatly reduce the amount of knowledge that people will need to acquire before they begin to learn ancient Greek, and will open for general use these marvelous texts, upon which much of modern Western civilisation has been built.
